History of Dental Assisting
Early 1900s**:
Dental practices relied on informal support roles, often filled by office secretaries or family members without formal training.
1920s - 1930s**:
A significant shift occurred when Dr. Alfred C. Fones trained Irene Newman as
the first dental hygienist, paving the way for specialized roles and structured training.
1940s (WWII)**:
World War II created high demand for dental assistants
due to a shortage of practicing dentists, expanding their roles significantly.
1950s - 1960s**:
Formal training programs for dental assistants were established, and the
American Dental Assistants Association (ADAA) gained prominence, advocating for the
profession.
1970 - Present**:
The profession gained recognition with certification programs like the Dental Assisting National Board (DANB).
Dental assistants now perform a variety of clinical and administrative tasks,
reflecting their essential role in patient care and dental practice efficiency.
Overall, dental assisting has evolved from informal roles to a respected profession with professional training and certification.